# 2021, 5, 23, sunday
i watched dream horse today. a small town is as fun as usual. and there seems something about moving fast deep down in human. running, riding a bike or a horse, f1 racing, airplane, rocket. it should not be about motion because the earth moves very fast around the sun and not many can feel it. maybe when moving fast there are more things to see, or it is the further places, or the purity of pursuing something.

# 2021, 5, 22, saturday, cloudy-sunny
in the morning, i learned yuan longping, father of hybrid rice, passed away in china. in the afternoon, i think about science, life, education, and then textbooks used in school. those books are loaded with knowledge and are well-written owing to the hard work of the authors. writing is very very hard. exhibit a is my poor writing on just random topics. writing knowledge can only be much harder. there however seems one important thing, if not one of the most imporant things, that textbooks do not teach.

it is easily understandable that a good textbook ought to be concise, intuitive, correct, and the least confusing. i never buy/use textbooks for learning mistakes. the books teach what is right, how to be right. but they have the limit of not equally showing what is on the other side - the mistakes that were made, why they were made and it is ok, etc. without such information, learners could have false impressions, such as that it is dumb of an average person to still error in exams or to not completely understand the material, or that truth is on the paper. sciences, arts?, for that matter life, should not be only taught. mistakes shall be a necessary first teaching step to many many new (wonderful or not) things/experiences to come.

as a reminder, mistakes have consequences to endure, just as pains or disappointments in life.


# 2021, 5, 16, sunday, sunny
it has been a week since i started writing, to myself.

from time to time, i imagine being back to the past in time travel. i know time travel is unlikely to be a reality in my lifetime, or for that matter, maybe ever. i do not want to change things in the past, which is not to say i have lived a perfect life without regret, or know things in the future. when i imagine time travel, i get the real feeling that i cannot experience in real life. i cannot describe it clearly or explain the reasons. maybe it is marvelous to re-live the moments with from two views of the same person, or maybe it fulfills my desire to recall the past myself, or there is any interesting connection to find.

because my long-term memory is not so great, i cannot remember the past well enough to travel back to. so much has been lost that i cannot connect to the past myself. and i fear if i do nothing about it, the future myself will not be able to connect to the present myself, either. so i began writing, to and for the future myself.


# 2021, 5, 15, saturday, sunny
the finding you movie appeared a romance comedy but it has more good stuff. unreal beauty of ireland, haunting irish culture and people, open-mindedness, kindness, fellowship, trade-off. weather and food sound awful though but i am not going to an irish bar for food or suntan.


# 2021, 5, 10, tuesday
andrew yang impressed me in the yang speaks podcast with his advice to the younger himself. live at peace with unmet expectations/goals. the other mindset i learned from this man is the abundance mindset.

in another episode of the neil degrasse typson podcast, he made the case for not knowing iq test result. imagine if the (at most inaccurate yet widely believed) result is less than what is expected of a kid's dream, would the kid knowing that still try as hard? or in the opposite case, why would a genius kid need to work as much as an average kid? the point is to pursue the dream to one's best despite anything else, people, nature, etc.

when x says you will/will not y, where x can be anyone, yourself, someone, "they", society, nature, etc and y can be anything or any state, proving/testing whether x is wrong or right is a possible new experience in life.


# 2021, 5, 9, sunday, sunny
i watched the human factor, a documentary, in the afternoon. the relationship, or the lack thereof, between the middle east two remains a tough problem to this day that smart and powerful figures have worked for decades but did not succeed.

i have given it a bit of thinking, or more exactly guessing, about what a successful solution might look like. i acknowledge that i know as little about either an alien would and make my own assumptions.

possible solution a: the enemy of my enemy is my friend. a common enemy to both is an incentive for both to stop hurting the other.

possible solution b: love.


# 2021, 5, 8, saturday, sunny/cloudy 

in the morinig, i, for some irrelevant reasons, watched (parts of) the voyage music video from a very famous japanese musician ayumi hamasaki and saw in the video that the brave man, confronted and outnumbered by an armed force, stood to protect the woman. i began wondering how good it is an end of one's life.

there are way over a millions ways to die. being eaten by bacteria, eaten by a lion, eat a poisonous mushroom, and so on. none desirable occurs to me. with biological death being the only exit, dying to save a loved one feels the best imaginable option. 

i recalled some evidence for this claim. exhibit a is the end of the titanic movie. exhibit b is the end of a certain most known figure in religions.

in the evening, i watched the autumn sonata movie. it gave me things to think about mother/parent and love.
