# 2021, 6, 27, sunday, way too sunny
in a recent Lex Fridman podcast conversation i listened to, a common yet somehow foreign word had me feel like a reunion with an old friend - cool. it seems the only thing i have really learned in the past few years is responsibility, am i stoic? i have not thought about, let alone done, what is really cool to me. i feel pity and regret for myself. thankfully, it is not too late. i searched somewhat extensively and thoroughly for the answers. there are many cool things, to name a few, life, literature, arts, sciences. and to me, software is also cool. it is not the kind of software that makes billionaires, or the kind that solves hard problems, or that wins awards. in another word, the artifact or the outcomes is not relevant. what really matters in my measure of coolness is the motive and the journey. i managed to find a few examples of cool software (in no particular order).

ubuntu linux. the os i am writing this whatever on.

firefox. the web browser i use for internet.

vlc. the media player i watch many movies with.

wikipedia. the website i gain knowledge and information.

piratebay. the website i used to get arts from growing up.

arxiv. the webiste i gain knowledge.

all of them are free to use. particularly cool is linux and vlc as both are started by students and are open source.


# 2021, 6, 20, sunday, sunny
i am afraid i might be a victim of information explosion recently. there is just too much information in the world now. yet too litle time. today i am at a bookstore, paused at world politics. too much effort into arms and too little into handshakes. what do human beings fight over? i am no expert at military or politics. imagine what a group of soliders surviving a hard battle enter a place they should not be would do. it is hard for me to imagine they run to a bookstore to read books, or to a theater to watch movies or listen to music, or to see local flowers and singing birds. they are more likely interested in economical and reproductive gains, aside from destroying the abovementioned. there is, however, a much better pursuit for humans. based on the second law of thermodynamics, with or without armed soliders, the universe is doing nothing but erasing humans from it. the sun is running out with every second passing. the killing rays are constantly bombarding the remaining shield covering the earth. there is nothing personal to humans as this law of nature goes. it just applies to any life or information. remember how dinosaurs ended. if the grand mission for humans is not to let the universe succeed, every life has a purpose.


# 2021, 6, 5, saturday, sunny to cloudy
as i recently got interested in irish and british cultures, i read on quora about irish and british and had a thought or a question: are cultures in the world known to us too diverse, not diverse enough, or just right? i don't have a clear answer because i have rather mixed information in mind. and i am not sure whether the question is important. all i can say is i feel like more diversity.


# 2021, 6, 1, tuesday, sunny
life is a constraint and hopefully more than that. based on my personal experience, it seems that life experience = endure * give , "correctness" or "usefulness" pending testing. my test is straightforward: if i endure more or give more, does my life become more?

the two parts may well be two sides just like many others, offense and defense, yin and yang, for example. on the side of giving, i am not generous nor have much to give now and possibly in the future but i want to experience life through giving more as much as i possibly can. i am just not into getting what i do not want/others want.
