# 2021, 12, 23, thursday, late night 
it's been quite a while since the last update for i wasn't sure what's worth writing down. i've got no new or good words to say that the world hasn't seen yet and my personal feelings are not interesting or irrelevant. my previous writings might contain lots of those, please excuse me for them.

i have read Meditations over and over for a few times now, and parts of A History of Western Philosophy. on this subject, i am currently of the opinion that while philosophy might sound impractical or luxury at this age, it is a deep and rich source of help in life. i know i can always use some help. even though the meaning of life could get boring, (perhaps it's too general?) it helps me think what kind of person i want to be? x. why? y. why that? z. what if u? but v. personally speaking, i might be applying philosophy more than theorizing them, even though both are important.

i have also been retraining myself in physics. i do love physics since i first learned it. even i don't do physics for a living, it's for me a strong tunnel from my small world to the bigger world, allowing me to see more clearly the true nature. i am really not bright enough to understand it well/easily/quickly because some parts of it are quite abstract to me so i am ready for the likely outcome that i might not grasp physics in the end. but i know i will not regret about not having tried. i also don't want to delay it further and want it to be part of my life.

i am increasingly appreciating the good idea of habits. it comes down to two parts. part one, i start doing x which i otherwise don't do and keep doing it into a new good habit. and part two, i stop doing y and keep from doing it to break an old bad habit. growing new good habits and breaking old bad habits is within my design and control.

the last part is about computation/machine learning/artificial intelligence. again, i have got nothing new or good as i am not an expert at this. from my current perspective, a lot of machine learning work today involes that human uses algorithm x to solve problem y from real/physical world z, where x can be a model, a supervised learning algorithm, or a reinforcement learning algorithm, etc, and y is a formulated computational problem such as classification, and z is independent of x or y. what do machines learn?

first, machines do not create algorithms, they can modify parameters but not algorithms. can modifying parameters of one algorithm be the same as creating new algorithms? or any new algorithm? assuming humans haven't taught macines that, machines are not learning to create algorithms. the assumption has some evidence from the real world z. business and research are training and hiring in large quantities scientists and engineers skilled at machine learning. if machines could already create algorithms x themselves and humans only need to formulate problems y from the world z, the demands for workers might be much smaller and great progress would have been made for some problems significant in z today.

second, machines do not formulate problems y. humans living in the world z define problems y to computers.

so machine learning is running algorithm x for problem y, both of which are specified by humans regarding what and how to learn.

can a machine create new algorithms and formulate new problems?


# 2021, 12, 26, sunday, snow

what kind of a person do i dream to be? let it be x. if i were the only living person, would i immediately be x? if yes, would those make a difference and why? then would i still dream to be x? if never, would those make a difference and why? if no yet, what if i were the only/all there is, would those make a difference and why? none of those so far would affect x, what kind of a person would x dream to be?
